{"fileName": "Do-Bigger-Things-with-Samsung-Galaxy-Note-the-Next-Level-Note-136491.html", "title": "Do Bigger Things with Samsung Galaxy Note8, the Next Level Note", "date_posted": "2017-09-13 09:46:27", "total_views": "17175", "total_comments": "0", "image_urls": [], "content": "Samsung Electronics introduces the Galaxy Note8, the next level Note for people who want to do bigger things. With the Galaxy Note8, consumers get a bigger Infinity Display that fits comfortably in one hand, S Pen to communicate in more personal ways, and Samsung\u2019s best-ever smartphone camera to capture stunning photos. The Galaxy Note8 is designed for the way consumers lead their lives and lean on technology today.\n\u201cWe appreciate the relentless passion of the Note community. They\u2019ve been a constant inspiration to us and we designed the new Note for them,\u201d said DJ Koh, president of Mobile Communications Business, Samsung Electronics. \u201cFrom the Infinity Display to the enhanced S Pen and a powerful Dual Camera, the Galaxy Note8 lets people do things they never thought were possible.\u201d\nSamsung first introduced the Note series in 2011. Since then, a community of enthusiasts emerged through their affinity for Note\u2019s signature expansive screen and S Pen. According to Samsung market research1, 85 percent of Note users say they\u2019re proud to show off their Note and recommend it to friends, and 75 percent say it\u2019s the best phone they\u2019ve ever had.\nThe Galaxy Note8 has the biggest screen ever on a Note device, yet its narrow body makes it comfortable to hold in one hand. The 6.3-inch Quad HD+ Super AMOLED Infinity Display lets you see more and scroll less. The Galaxy Note8 gives you more room to watch, read and draw\u2014making it the ultimate multitasking smartphone.\nNote users have long been able to do more with Multi Window. With the Galaxy Note8, the new App Pair feature lets you create a custom pair of apps on the Edge Panel and simultaneously launch two apps with ease. Watch a video while messaging your friends or dial into a conference call with the number and agenda in front of you2.\nSince its introduction, the S Pen has been one of the Note\u2019s defining features. With the Galaxy Note8, the enhanced S Pen unlocks entirely new ways to write, draw, and interact with the phone and communicate with friends. It has a finer tip, improved pressure sensitivity3, and features that enable users to express themselves in ways that no other stylus or smartphone ever has.\nWhen communicating with text just isn\u2019t enough, Live Message allows you to reveal your unique personality and tell expressive stories. With the Galaxy Note8, you can now share animated texts or drawings across platforms that support animated GIFs 4. It\u2019s a whole new way to communicate with the S Pen\u2014adding lively and emotional connections that bring your messages to life.\nThe Always On Display allows Galaxy users to stay on top of their notifications without unlocking their phone. And with the Galaxy Note8, it\u2019s even more powerful. Screen off memo allows you to take up to one-hundred pages of notes as soon as you remove the S Pen, pin notes to the Always On Display and make edits directly from the Always On Display.\nFor overseas travels or when you come across a website in a foreign language, the improved S Pen Translate feature lets you hover over text to quickly translate not only individual words, but entire sentences in up to 71 languages, and instantly convert units and foreign currencies.\nFor most consumers, one of the things they look for when purchasing a new device is the camera. Samsung set the standard for smartphone cameras and with the Galaxy Note8, we\u2019re delivering our most powerful smartphone camera yet.\nThe Galaxy Note8 is the first smartphone with two 12MP rear cameras with Optical Image Stabilization (OIS) on both the wide-angle and telephoto lenses. Whether you\u2019re exploring a new city or running around your backyard, OIS lets you capture sharper images.\nFor more advanced photo-taking, the Galaxy Note8\u2019s Live Focus feature lets you control the depth of field by allowing you to adjust the bokeh effect in preview mode and after you take the photo.\nIn Dual Capture mode, both rear cameras take two pictures simultaneously and allow you to save both images; one close-up shot from the telephoto lens and one wide-angle shot that shows the entire background.\nThe wide-angle lens has a Dual Pixel sensor with rapid Auto Focus, so you can capture sharper, clearer shots even in low-light environments. The Galaxy Note8 is also equipped with an industry-leading 8MP Smart Auto Focus front-facing camera for sharp selfies and video chats.\nThe Galaxy Note8 is built on the Galaxy legacy\u2014a collection of unique features and capabilities that, together, have redefined the mobile experience:\nWater and Dust Resistance: Four years ago, Samsung introduced the first Galaxy device with water resistance. And today, you can take your Note almost anywhere you want with water and dust resistance (IP685) on the device and the S Pen. You can write even when the display is wet.\nFast Wireless Charging: Two years ago, Samsung introduced the first Galaxy device with wireless charging. The Galaxy Note8 supports the most advanced wireless charging capabilities yet, so you can get a quick, convenient charge6 without having to mess around with ports or wires.\nSecurity: The Galaxy Note8 offers a choice of biometric authentication options\u2014including iris and fingerprint scanning. Samsung Knox7 provides defense-grade security at the hardware and software layers and with Secure Folder, keeps your personal and professional data separate.\nPowerful Performance: With 6GB RAM, a 10nm processor, and expandable memory (up to 256GB), you have the power you need to browse, stream, play games, and multitask.\nInnovative Mobile Experiences: Samsung DeX enables a desktop experience, powered by your phone. You can keep your files on your device, conduct work on the go, and use Samsung DeX when you need an even bigger screen. The Galaxy Note8 includes Bixby8, a smarter way to use your phone; it learns from you, improves over time, and helps you get more done.\nThe Galaxy Note8 takes business innovation to the next level with advanced features that improve performance, productivity and security for a wide range of industries, simplifying how work gets done:\nEnhanced S Pen for Business: The S Pen lets professionals do what other smartphones can\u2019t, like discreetly taking notes in Screen off memo or quickly annotating documents and photos.\nNon-Contact Authentication: The Galaxy Note8 offers iris scanning for professionals\u2014for example, professionals in the health care, construction, or public safety sectors who may find themselves in a position where they need to unlock their phones without having to swipe or scan a fingerprint.\nEnhanced DeX Capabilities: The Galaxy Note8 powers Samsung DeX for those who need to extend their simple mobile experience seamlessly to the desktop \u2014whether they\u2019re in the field, at the office or at home.\nSamsung continues to uphold its commitment to lead the industry in battery safety. The Galaxy Note8\u2019s battery has undergone Samsung\u2019s 8-Point Battery Safety Check\u2014the most rigorous in the industry.\n\u201cWe have been closely working with Samsung to make meaningful advancements in the science of smartphone quality and safety evaluation. As a result, the Galaxy Note8 has successfully completed a rigorous series of device and battery safety compatibility test protocols. We look forward to maintaining our strategic relationship with Samsung and helping ensure device safety for all consumers.\u201d said Sajeev Jesudas, President, UL International.\nThe Galaxy Note8 will be available starting in mid-September and will be offered in Midnight Black, Orchid Gray, Maple Gold and Deepsea Blue9.\nFor more information about Galaxy Note8 visit news.\n,\n, \u00a0or\n.\n(\n)\n", "comments": []}