{"fileName": "OPPO-strengthens-its-position-in-the-Sri-Lankan-market-with-the-New-OPPO-F-Launch-140071.html", "title": "OPPO strengthens its position in the Sri Lankan market with the New OPPO F5 Launch", "date_posted": "2017-11-09 11:27:23", "total_views": "27487", "total_comments": "1", "image_urls": [], "content": "OPPO Mobiles, The Selfie Expert & Leader, launched their brand-new offering OPPO F5 today in Sri Lanka. On the sidelines of this event, OPPO announced a new brand slogan - 'The Selfie expert and leader' consistent with its accomplishments in the Sri Lankanmarket. With its presence in 28 Global Market places, now OPPO products and service are appreciated and widely experienced by over 200 million young consumers across the globe. The F5 is the brand\u2019s first FHD+ full screen display model in Sri Lanka, featuring the groundbreaking A.I. Beauty technology \u2013 a technology designed to personalize beautification for subjects on a selfie image. The A.I. Beauty technology will take selfie photography to a whole new level of quality.\nPriced at Rs. 47,990, the F5 will go on sale from November 11thand will be available across country. Two other models were also launched at the event, the F5 6GB edition and the F5 Youth to give OPPO fans and the youth more choices to suit their needs. These two variants will be available in December.\nOPPO also announced a New Brand Ambassador, Youth Icon and Bollywood Superstar\u2013 Sidharth Malhotra who would be joining the current ambassador - Deepika Padukone.\nMr. Bob Li, CEO, OPPO Sri Lanka said, \u201cThis is an exciting time for OPPO Sri Lanka. We have not only introduced the latest F5 model with leading-edge A.I beauty technology but also started our journey of growth in a new strategic direction. I am confident that Sri Lankans, in particular youth will embrace this model with its advanced features as they have embraced our previous models,\"\nSidharth Malhotra, OPPO\u2019s New Brand Ambassador said, \u201cI am very excited to be a part of the growing OPPO family. I\u2019m very impressed with the A.I.Beauty Technology, taken by the OPPO F5 especially selfies. I was awestruck by how natural my selfies now look and it is amazing how OPPO has identified the nerves of the Sri Lankan youth and the trend \u2013 Selfies.\u201d\nThe new brand slogan, \u2018The Selfie Expert and Leader\u2019, represents OPPO\u2019s mission of offering the best selfie experience to young consumers and leading the category. OPPO has been an expert and a continuous leader of Selfie technology in the industry \u2013 from introducing the first Built-in Beautify Software in 2012, first brand to introduce a 206-degree rotating camera phone in 2013 (N1), first brand to launch Selfie focused phones to offering a 120-degree wide-angle group camera function for group Selfies (F3). And now with the launch of the OPPO F5, it further strengthens its leadership in the Sri Lankan market.\nThe revamp also represents brand\u2019s popularity amongst the youth. It is the youth\u2019s first choice when it comes to Selfie phones.\u00a0 More than 20 crore young people are using OPPO phone globally. The brand\u2019s marketing and brand activities are also youth focused and targeted towards platforms that are popular within the youth: Sports, Fashion and Entertainment. OPPO\u2019s roots are also deeply imbedded in the Sri Lankanmarket. The brand employs local staff (over 99% Sri Lankansand offers customized products for the Sri Lankanaudience. It is focused on offering a perfect and excellent Selfie Experience to the Sri Lankan youth.\nThe brand\u2019s performance has also been reported by credible third-party organizations. A latest Nielsen report (July 2017) basis consumer feedback, also states that one of the most important purchasing factors for a smartphone is a good selfie camera and the first brand coming to a consumer\u2019s mind when talking about good selfies is OPPO. (Top of mind awareness \u2013 39%).\nWhilst OPPO unveiled an all new TVC that features Sidharth Malhotra, opposite Deepika Padukone, the highlight of the event was when Angelo Matthews, the brand ambassador of OPPO Sri Lanka who is preparing for his next series joined the ecstatic audience gathered in spirits through a special video and presented an autographed bat for the occasion.\nOPPO F5 is the first smart phone that brings Artificial Intelligence into selfie feature in Sri Lanka with years R&D. It identifies shapes and facial structures based on a global database. Professional photographers and make-up artists were consulted during the R&D process, resulting in the A.I. technology having the ability to emulate those professional skills that can help selfies look more real and nature.\nWith more than 200 facial recognition spots that reference the image against a global database of human faces to learn facial features, shapes and structures, F5 can distinguish each person\u2019s face features from skin tone and type, gender, age and more.\nAfter facial recognition, the AI Beauty technology will customize beautify based on one\u2019s features from skin, eyes, lips, to face shape. The feature will also have personalization for specific subjects. For example, enhancements will not be soft or feminine for male subjects. Children or babies will not receive enhancements that make them look like adults.\nOPPO F5 comes installed with a 20MP front camera with an ultra-sensitive F2.0 aperture and 1/2.8\u201d sensor. Both features allow the camera to gain more information to produce better images with less noise in low light conditions. The front-camera Portrait mode also applies a Bokeh effect to the background, creating better gradation and making you the focus of the selfie shot, every time.\nAnd for the rear camera, the 16MP rear camera is excellent for all day and night shots. Along with the F1.8 aperture in the back camera also performs brilliantly for brighter and more precise shots in darker settings.\nThe First FHD+ Full-Screen Smartphone with streamlined design philosophy\nThe F5 will be OPPO\u2019s first 6.0-inch FHD+ full-screen display device, giving the user a vivid visual enjoyment without the need to increase the size of the phone. It features a high-resolution 2160 x 1080 dpi screen with 18:9 aspect ratio. F5 is also the first phone equipped with FHD+ full screen display in its price segment.\nThe F5 follows OPPO\u2019s streamlined design philosophy - the sleek unibody offers a visually slim appearance without any cut-offs, with a gracefully curved body that fits well in the palm, expressing a simple and elegant look. A user\u2019s palm will not feel tired even after using the phone for a long time, either from playing games or chatting. The 0.4mm laser string is carved onto the phone \u2013 a delicate linear finish that adds detail to the phone body.\nThe F5 comes with Facial Unlock, the new face recognition technology that will recognize its user and unlock the phone. If the user prefers to use the fingerprint unlock function, the fingerprint reader is now on the back of the phone, giving way to a full front screen.\nOPPO\u2019s Color OS 3.2, together with 4G RAM + 32GB ROM memory gives the operating system a much smoother user experience. A triple slot tray supports two Nano cards and one TF card simultaneously. The Octa-core CPU processor uses less energy, produces less heat while giving a higher performance speed (40% increased performance compared to the previous Color OS versions).\nThe F5 battery life is exceptional, thanks to the 3200Ah battery and the Continuous Optimizing technology which manages the apps running on the device, allowing the user up to 12 hours of continuous use (in a simulated test).\nOPPO F5 also has some special features for the consumers such as Game Acceleration specially targeted at Gamers. This feature will offer a smoother game experience apart from optimizing the game display configuration to fully utilize hardware resource, This will also ensure minimal disturbance while gaming with incoming calls being shown in the form of a banner and not interrupting your game.\nThe O-share file sharing technology is 100 times faster than Bluetooth \u2013 8 to 10 pictures (3MB each) can be transferred between OPP/O phones within 1 second.\nAnother feature that will ensure you have a smooth experience is the Split Screen feature which means easy multi-tasking \u2013 chat, listen to songs or surf social media.\n", "comments": [{"commentterName": "Ammritha ", "commentterTime": "Sunday, 3 December 2017 21:36 ", "comment": "What is the price range in SLRs. ", "thumpDown": "0", "thumpUp": "5"}]}