{"fileName": "Five-reasons-why-mobile-devices-are-changing-societies-129081.html", "title": "Five reasons why mobile devices are changing societies", "date_posted": "2017-05-17 13:43:29", "total_views": "20781", "total_comments": "0", "image_urls": [], "content": "Wireless technology has made life so much easier today. However with the emergence of smartphones and other mobile devices, users rely heavily on them. Although this has its own pros and cons, mobile devices have made working more convenient for students and other professionals. Today, there is a growing trend of the usage of mobile devices. Following are a few reasons why you these mobile devices are changing societies:\nNow buyers don\u2019t have to always visit the nearest supermarket to buy any items. Mobile devices are commonly used for purchasing purposes. With an online account you can purchase almost anything that is available on a site. If you crave for the latest headphones, bags, accessories or any other item you can do that with a few clicks. This makes it easier for you to make the purchase which in turn saves time. With online purchasing one doesn\u2019t have to wait in long queues as well and it is also easy to search for merchandise that you want to buy.\nUsers are available 24/7 and this allows people to reach anybody via their devices. Sure, the devices have \u201cmute\u201d functions and off buttons, but the constant flow of input can make many people reluctant to use these options (or to rely on them for long), especially if our mobile devices are used for work or emergency contact from loved ones.\nMobile devices can hold or connect to an endless amount of entertainment. Thanks to streaming audio, video, copious storage capacities and zippy processors, it\u2019s possible to\u00a0 listen to music, watch movies, read e-books, browse the web, engage with others and play games in just a few taps. No disconnections from loved ones Social media can help strengthen relationships. It can build new relationships and ensure that people do stay connected for longer periods of time. Today thanks to social media, people from all over the world can stay connected.\nUsing mobile devices have made life so much easier for the users. One reason is that people do not have to go to their workplace or home to reply to an email or a message. They can reply instantly and ensure that the senders do not have to wait for their replies.\n", "comments": []}