{"fileName": "EMP-to-revolutionize-local-medium-voltage-panel-manufacturing-118795.html", "title": "EMP to revolutionize local medium voltage panel manufacturing", "date_posted": "2016-11-07 12:04:45", "total_views": "26967", "total_comments": "0", "image_urls": [], "content": "Electro Metal Pressings (Pvt) Ltd (EMP), Sri Lanka\u2019s industry leading electro mechanical engineering solutions provider has signed an agreement with LSIS Co. Ltd., a global leader in the field of power solutions, for knowledge transfer and technological collaboration to locally manufacture Medium Voltage (MV) panel boards.\nEMP, a company that has demonstrated progressive growth during the past decade of operation, is trailblazing ahead in the industry by leveraging on timely investment in state-of-the-art technology. Operating from an ultramodern facility located at Templeburg Industrial Estate, Panagoda, the company was the first to introduce CNC machines in the history of metal pressings in Sri Lanka, followed by a Research & Development unit focused on transforming the industry. EMP has already ventured into a mutually beneficial partnership with LSIS for Low Voltage (LV) products, and is now building on this brand identity by expanding the partnership to sign the agreement covering the manufacture of MV panel boards.\nHead quartered in Korea, LSIS, formerly operating as LG Industrial Systems, is a local pioneer in the field of power solutions, and is today a global super power with over three decades of accumulated knowledge and experience in the industry. The company develops, produces and supplies a whole range of products and equipment related to power transmission and distribution, with a year-on-year sales increase of 30-40% across the global market. LSIS is now investing in \u2018Smart Energy\u2019, and was the first company in the world to develop a hybrid super conducting fault current limiter.\n\u201cWe are partnering with LSIS knowing fully well the company\u2019s focus on creating next-generation technologies,\u201d Mr. Diyunuge stated. \u201cWith their R&D capacity to explore innovative products, we believe EMP\u2019s partnership with LSIS will greatly strengthen our product and service offering across the region, along with added brand value and recognition.\u201d\nEMP specializes in the design and fabrication of LV & MV panel boards for all types of projects ranging from residential to commercial, from factory premises to mega constructions, adhering to the latest international standards. Leveraging on this strategic partnership with LSIS, EMP now uses LSIS switchgear to manufacture MV Panel Boards locally, another first in Sri Lanka. Prior to EMP\u2019s initiative, there were no dedicated manufacturers of MV panel boards in Sri Lanka, with the country relying on imports to curb the requirements.\nThrough this partnership, EMP\u2019s highly qualified and experienced engineering team will be gaining additional knowledge to up-skill themselves in the ever-evolving industry, to keep up with today\u2019s rapid pace of innovation. LSIS will be providing specific customized training to the EMP staff, transferring knowledge and competencies as per the agreement.\n\u201cWe have come to understand our formidable strength across the region as a high quality brand, and we are aggressively expanding to cater to the demands of our growing customer base,\u201d Mr. Thenuwara commented. \u201cNow we can explore the potential of foreign markets by introducing EMP branded MV products and we are discovering limitless possibilities with our own market reach.\u201d\nEMP demonstrated their capabilities and product portfolio at the Techno 2016, the national engineering and technology exhibition held early October, and introduced these novel bleeding-edge technologies to industry stakeholders in a joint effort with LSIS representatives, Mr. H.S. Lee \u00a0(Senior Manager - Technical Coordination Team - Power Distribution Business Group), Mr.C.W. Kim (Assistant - Technical Coordination Team) from Korea. The LSIS representative then went on to deliver a technical session at the Techno 2016 exhibition, sharing informative insights and new knowledge of transformational findings in the industry with all those present.\n\u201cWe are constantly challenging ourselves, the industry and all stakeholders by introducing new ideas, backed by the latest technologies to realize them,\u201d Mr. Diyunuge said. \u201cThis agreement with LSIS is also an investment in strengthening our corporate vision of becoming one of the most reliable and trusted total solutions providers to the engineering and construction industry.\u201d\n", "comments": []}