{"fileName": "abans-unveils-lgs-first-curved-smartphone--45278.html", "title": "Abans unveils LG\u2019s first curved smartphone", "date_posted": "2014-04-01 06:04:04", "total_views": "5924", "total_comments": "0", "image_urls": [], "content": "Abans, sole agent in Sri Lanka for LG smartphones, launched the innovative new LG G Flex curved smartphone, which is the first device in the smartphone market that is curved to follow the contour of the face. The LG G Flex is the latest device in LG\u2019s premium G Series, which is set to create a new milestone in smartphone revolution, incorporating proprietary innovations in the form of the display and battery. It also boasts new user experience with unique features that take advantage of the phone\u2019s curved form factor.\n\u201cLG has continued to learn from consumers and has broken boundaries with a distinctive and revolutionary product that is shaped to enhance consumers\u2019 usage experience,\u201d said a spokesman for LG Electronics Singapore. \u201cThe LG G Flex with its distinctive curved design, innovative hardware and consumer-centric unique features set the standard in the smartphone industry and represents the most significant smartphone development.\u201d\nForm + function: design that understands human curves - the vertically curved design of the LG G Flex reduces the distance between the user\u2019s mouth to the microphone when the device is held against the ear, as traditional telephone handsets used to. It is also optimized to deliver improved voice and sound quality, increasing the sound level by 3dB compared to typical flat smartphones.\nFurthermore, the curved design offers a more reassuring grip and fits more comfortably in one\u2019s pocket. In landscape mode, the display offers a cinematic experience to fit the contours of human\u2019s eyes, with the result being the most comfortable viewing angle for watching videos or playing games.\nThe LG G Flex also features the Rear Key function, which was first introduced in the LG G2. Devoid of any buttons on the sides, there is less chance of accidentally powering off the phone and the convenience of using one\u2019s index finger to adjust the volume when conversing is maintained.\nInnovation delivered through collaboration - The development of LG G Flex was only possible through the successful collaboration with its sister companies, LG Display and LG Chem. The six-inch display found in the G Flex is the world\u2019s largest Plastic OLED (POLED) display developed and mass produced specifically for smartphones. The ultra-thin, ultra-light flexible POLED display and curved OLED panel are built on plastic substrates instead of glass, giving LG G Flex its unique shape and durability. The POLED display is brighter and more precise thanks to the application of Real RGB, which contains all three sub-pixels \u2014 red, green and blue \u2014 in one pixel.\nLG developed the world\u2019s first curved battery technology specifically for application in LG G Flex. The curved battery in the G Flex is designed with LG patented Stack and Folding technology, reducing the physical stress on the battery pack when in the curved form and provides better stability and performance. Despite its thin form, the LG G Flex battery has a capacity of 3,500mAh, enough power for more than a full day of use.\nUser-centred technologies - Among the several new technologies, the LG G Flex is the first smartphone to apply a \u2018Self-healing\u2019 coating on the back cover. The elastic coating has the ability to recover from the daily wear-and-tear scratches and nicks that un-cased smartphones are likely to receive, helping it to maintain a brand-new look.\nUsers of LG G Flex will have a wider selection in the ability to enjoy music in various formats \u2014 MP3, CD quality or 24 bit/192kHz Hi-Fi playback. UX features, such as KnockON, Guest Mode and Plug & Pop, which were positively received when first introduced in the LG G2, can also be found in the LG G Flex.\nThe LG G Flex also includes an array of new unique features: QuickTheater gives users quick access to photos, videos and YouTube right from the lock screen. By touching the screen and dragging outwards along the curved surface with both fingers, the apps appear with the effect of theatre curtains being drawn.\nDual Window divides the wide sixinch screen into two separate windows for more effective multitasking. Swing Lockscreen alters the image on the lockscreen depending on how the G Flex is held. Face Detection Indicator displays the LED on the Rear Key in green to confirm status of face detection and focus during self-shots using the rear camera. Camera Timer flashes the Rear Key LED to indicate that the countdown has begun.\nBe the proud owner of a unique curved smartphone with amazing unique features that will make your friends envy you. The LG G Flex curved smartphone is available at all Abans showrooms, Elite Showrooms and key partners.\n", "comments": []}